1. 

Talk about technical and ethical issues related to providing access to a
Ferguson social media collection. Interested in hearing about different
approaches people come up with since this is a relatively new area for archival
research and practice.

Howard Zinn. Secrecy, Archives and the Public Interest. 1970. SAA.
the existence, preservation and availability of archives, documents, records in our society are very much determined by the distribution of wealth and power. That is, the most powerful, the richest elements in society have the greatest capacity to find documents, preserve them, and decide what is or is not available to the public. This means government, business and the military are dominant.

2.

Zeynep Tufekci (UNC iSchool) muses on the ways that algorithms shape the media, and our experience.
Katie's notion of value levers. The intersection between Twitter's business interests and the values of society, the values of UMD and my own personal values.

3.

Twitter API

4. 

Total number of tweets. Collected with twarc, a opensource command line tool.
Mention teach ins, which I will talk about a bit more shortly.

5. 

Graph has some dips, when we weren't able to get data fast enough. 170 requests
for 100 tweets every 15 minutes. 1.6M / day.

6. 

63G of JSON data. 8G compressed. Show the example.  Technical accessibility 
issues. How do you provide access to this content?

7. 

The anatomy of a tweet.

8. 

My interest in web archives and collaboration with the Internet Archive.
Difficulty in identifying seed URLs. Why not use social media as a lens to 
look at what was in need of archiving on the Web?

9. 

Yielded a report of URLs ordered by their popularity that were in need of
archiving.

10. 

Neil Fraistat and I were invited to a Town Hall meeting by Sheri Parks from
the Department of American Studies.  Random imagery from tweets used as a 
backdrop for the townhall meeting. 5 hours long, 300 hundred students.

11. 

5 Researching Ferguson teach-ins. 

12. 

Twitter likes to embellish its socially progressive image, but it's Terms of Service unsurprisingly and necessarily reflect its business interests. Gnip as data reseller, purchased by Twitter. Shutting off DataSift.

13. 

Explain how only IDs can be shared, and how you can rehydrate data. 

14.

Point out rate of deletes, and slight difference in delete rates.

15. 

Katie is leading the last sesssion that was supposed to be the third. Please come! It would be interesting to hear about the approaches people come up with for managing ethics and access.


